# Restaurant-Simulator


#Goal: 
To master the use of synchronization primitives in either with Java or a C library, and carry out a substantial multi-threaded implementation using these. 

#Problem: Restaurant 6431 is now open.  A restaurant requires careful coordination of resources, which are the tables in the restaurant, the cooks available to cook the order, and the machines available to cook the food (we assume that there is no contention on other possible resources, like servers to take orders and serve the orders).  

In this project, you will write a simulation for a restaurant. The simulation has four  sets  of parameters - the  number  of  eaters  (diners)  that  wish  to  enter  the  restaurant,  the  times    they    approach  the  restaurant    and  what  they  order,    the  number  of  tables  in  the  restaurant  (there    can  only  be  as  many  eaters  as  there  are  tables  at  a  time;    other      eaters  must  wait  for  a  free  table before placing  their order), and  the number of cooks in the kitchen that process orders.

Eaters in the restaurant place their orders when they get seated. These orders are then handled by available cooks. Each cook handles one order at a time. A cook handles an order by using machines  to  cook  the  food  items. To  simplify  the  simulation,  we  make  the  following assumptions. There are only three types of food served by the restaurant - a Buckeye Burger, Brutus Fries, and Coke. Each person entering the restaurant occupies one table and orders one or more burgers, zero or more orders of fries, and zero or one glass of coke. The cook needs to use the burger machine for 5 minutes to prepare each burger, fries machine for 3 minutes for one order of fries, and the soda machine for 1 minute to fill a glass with coke. The cook can use at most one of these three machines at any given time. There is only one machine of each type in the restaurant (so, for example, over a 5-minute duration, only one burger can be prepared).  Once the food (all items at the same time) are brought to a diner's table, they take exactly 30 minutes to finish eating them, and then leave the restaurant, making the table available for another diner (immediately).  

#Input:  Diners arrive at the restaurant over a 120 minute duration, which is taken as input by the simulation. If  there  are  N  diners  arriving,  the  input  has    N+3  lines,  specifying,  in  order:  number  of  diners  (N),    number  of  tables,  number  of  cooks,  and  N  other  lines  each  with  the  following  four  numbers:  a  number  between  0  and  120  stating  when  the  diner  arrived  (this  number  is  increasing  across  lines),  the  number  of  burgers  ordered  (1  or  higher),  number  of  order of fries  (0 or higher), and whether or not coke was ordered (0 or 1).

#Your Implementation: Your simulation must create one thread for each arriving diner, which will then compete for an available table. There will also be one thread for each cook, all of them active for the entire duration when the restaurant is open.  Tables and machines for cooking the food are resources whose use must be coordinated among the threads.  
Your simulation should output when each diner was seated, which table they were seated in, which cook processed their order, when each of the machines was used for their orders, and when the food was brought to their table.  Finally, you should state the time when the last diner leaves  the  restaurant.  To  reduce  the  length  of  an  experiment,  you can use one second to simulate one minute. 

Check "compilation.pdf" file for steps to implement.
